---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Tullynally Castle and Fore Abby"
date: 2025-07-03
---

Today we visited Tullynally Castle in the morning and then explored the nearby ruins of Fore Abbey in the afternoon. Both sites offered very different but equally memorable experiences.

- [Tullynally Castle](https://www.tullynallycastle.ie/)
- [Fore Abby](https://heritageireland.ie/places-to-visit/fore-abbey/)
- [50km round trip](https://www.google.com/maps/dir/Weir's+Bar+%26+Restaurant,+Multy,+Mullingar,+Co.+Westmeath,+N91+T9WY/Tullynally+Castle+%26+Gardens,+Road,+Castlepollard,+County+Westmeath/Fore+Abbey,+Fore,+County+Westmeath/@53.6619073,-7.4037545,13437m/data=!3m2!1e3!4b1!4m20!4m19!1m5!1m1!1s0x485dc269aa52fa1b:0xf847b3467fe9ee47!2m2!1d-7.3907611!2d53.6246435!1m5!1m1!1s0x485de87ef6b5986f:0x5fb9e26e7ae91435!2m2!1d-7.3271664!2d53.6835994!1m5!1m1!1s0x485def726f2e474f:0x5e7d9a1ef3f7875f!2m2!1d-7.227154!2d53.683924!3e0?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDcxMy4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D)

## Tullynally Castle
Our visit to Tullynally Castle began with a guided tour through its richly decorated rooms, each filled with antique furnishings, portraits, and personal touches that told the story of the Pakenham family, who have lived there for over 350 years. After the tour, we wandered the extensive gardens surrounding the castle. Highlights included the walled garden, a serene Chinese garden, tranquil lakes, and winding woodland paths — all beautifully maintained and full of charm. We even spotted a few llamas grazing in one of the fields, adding a whimsical touch to the estate’s grandeur.

## Fore Abbey Ruins
In the afternoon, we traveled to the Fore Abbey ruins, a quiet and atmospheric site with deep historical roots. Founded in the 7th century by St. Feichin, the abbey’s crumbling stone structures are nestled in a green valley, surrounded by peaceful walking trails and rolling hills. We took time to explore the remnants of the church, cloisters, and towers, and learned about the site’s “Seven Wonders,” including a tree that won’t burn and water that flows uphill. The stillness and beauty of the area made for a contemplative and relaxing end to the day.