---
layout: page
title: "July 7 - Journal Entry"
permalink: /journal/july07/
journal: true
---

## July 7

Up and out for an adventure today. We are headed for Dublin. We are going to drive to Mullingar and take the train, because the traffic, tolls, and parking involved in driving to Dublin sound overwhelming. We will take the rain again on Wednesday, so today is like a trial run to see how we navigate, travel and walking through the city. Our trip today will include a bus tour, a cathedral with mummies, and anything else we see along the way. We have packed sandwiches and snacks, and hope to enjoy the countryside views from the train. 

The train ride into Dublin was about an hour and twenty minutes. The walk to St, Stephen’s Green, where our Viking Splash Tour picks up, was about a 30 minute walk from Connolly train station. The city is big and bustling, but feels safe enough as we walk through the streets. 

The Viking Splash tour is a yellow submarine looking bus that takes you on land and in the water as you see views in town and in the bay. The guide has everyone put on a viking helmet and practice a viking call. Then, as we pass groups of people on the sidewalks, we yell our best viking call and everyone waves and smiles. It was fun and the guide shared many entertaining stories. When we got to the water the guide said we were just going to drive fast off the pier and hope we landed in an upright way in the water, that made a boy in the back of the bus cry. In reality, we stopped in a lot and some men slid floatation gear onto some bars on both sides of the sub-bus, they even made each of us put on an orange life jacket. Then they drove very carefully down a ramp and into the water. It was fun to motor around the bay and get a different view of Dublin. Then we exited the water the same way we got in and handed back out life jackets. Overall I felt the tour was fun and entertaining. The viking view of history was a change from the few Irish ones we’ve heard so far. 

As the tour returned us to St. Stephen’s green the guide recommended a walk in the park, but warned us that the seagulls are very aggressive and he suggested we don't eat in the park. Jonathan thought the guide was just teasing, so as we walked into the park he pulled out his sandwich. Out of nowhere a large seagull swooped down and barely missed knocking Jon over as it tried to steal his food. OK, so the guide was not teasing, holy cow those birds are scary. We walked a little quicker, and exited the park. We still had over an hour before our tour at St. Michan’s, so when we saw the St. Patrick’s cathedral, we decided to walk through the self guided tour and see the impressive stained glass windows. 

The St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Dublin is very large and quite impressive. They give you a small listening device that looks a bit like an old cell phone with just a number key pad on it. Each display was labeled with a # that you could enter and listen to a recording of information on that display. We got to each go at our own pace and hear about the history of St, Patrick, the cathedral, and some of the figures from history that lived there, like Jonathan Swift, the author of Gullivar’s Travels. It was interesting and we took a good amount of time and pictures. It really made me want to learn to create stained glass art, wow what a fascinating form of expression. 

Well, we had to leave the cathedral, because we had tickets for a tour of St. Michan’s mummies at another cathedral in Dublin, and it was a 15 minute walk across the bridge over the jiffy. At St. Michan’s, we are told that someone broke into the crypt and set fire to a few of the mummies, so the tour is of some of the other tombs. The cathedral was much smaller than St. Patrick’s, but the organ was fascinating, they said it was used by composer George Frideric Handel, as he finished his oratorio of The Messiah. He even played its debut in Ireland. Then we went into some creepy crypts in the underground of the cathedral, we saw coffins that had literally fallen apart and a full skeleton of a very small woman. Some of the tombs had been well cared for as the family descendants are still in the area, other crypts were falling into ruins as they had no family left to provide upkeep. 

We sat outside the St. Michan Cathedral and ate our lunch, and looked at the map of Dublin. We still had some time before the train back to Mullingar. Dublin Castle was only a twenty minute walk back over the river, it would put us farther from the train station, but it was a nice day, so we decided to take the walk. Dublin Castle was indeed impressive, from the outside, but when we inquired about a tour we realized that the restoration of the inside had modernized it into a political building for government use. So, we opted to just wander the grounds and enjoy the medieval splendor of the exterior. 

By this time Molly is getting tired of walking all over Dublin and grumpy as well. Maybe some food would help pep her up. We stopped at a little corner food place and got her some chicken and fries. Jonathan got a Kebab, which is a type of lamb pita sandwich, that he said was his new favorite food. We ate in a small park nearby that was thankfully free of seagulls, though the pigeons were a bit pesky. 

Now we had a twenty five minute walk back to the train station. As we walked we had fun crossing each bridge that spanned the river, there were about half a dozen. Molly was a trooper, though you could tell she was at the end of her rope and very tired. We found a cute little gelato place, Cloud Nine, and each got a tasty treat that made the walk more pleasant. We eventually got back to the train station and made the trip back to Mullingar and drove home. It was a very long day. We are all tired. But we have a good day and hopefully we’ll sleep well.
